I didn't have the LRU problem.
So I put on my resume on
Netflix that I didn't know Rx.
I knew a very little bit of Rx,
but I said, hey, I know Rx.
And when I got there, I had who is a well
known person in the JavaScript land.
And he gave the interview and he gave me
a really hard Rx problem, and of course at
that point I was really good at
interviewing, so what's the thing I did?
I convinced the interviewer to give me the
answer through a series of questions, and
I just wrote out what he was saying,
like, yeah, it's exactly what I was doing.
Switch latest, switch, switch latest,
wrote out his exact answer and
he told the other person
interviewing that I was the best Rx
candidate he has interviewed to that date
and I didn't know anything that happened.
I couldn't even tell you what I
programmed, it was terrible, but
sometimes you got to play the game,
okay, and I played the game.
All right, so what is an LRU so for
those that don't know what an LRU is,
it is a fantastic data structure and
ultimately at Netflix I did end up
implementing an LRU that did run for
quite a few years on the television
platform and on the website.
And for a little bit even on
mobile before we switch to native.
So an LRU stands for
least recently used, and
what that means it's
a caching mechanism that
says that we will evict
the least recently used item.
Now there's a couple of things about
caching that makes it unique in a sense.
So let's think about how we would do that,
how would we accomplish first
the eviction of the least recently used.
Well, one thing we can think about
is that cash really is some sort of
container, right?
We're gonna build some sort of node
container based system in which contains
some sort of value.
Now this value is what the user gave us to
cache so you can think of website caching
when you go to www.google.com, it's gonna
pull up likely a lot of cache, right?
And it has ways in which the VIX the cache
based on expiry headers blah blah there's
I'm sure there's plenty of different
ways in which it can do expiration.
So anyways we have a value
we want to store it,
bu at least recently used cache
has one more item in which
it has a linked list that has
other values inside of it,
so value 0, value 1, value 2,
value 3 and so forth,
right, it just keeps on going for
some amount of time.
Now the thing about this is that
all these values need to be stored
in such a way that if the user says hey,
do I have value 2?
I should be able to pull out value 2 and
say yes you do.
Here's the value, but more than just that,
I need to take value 2,
and I need to move it to
the head of the queue, right?
Because now it has been used.
So here I'll just go like this.
So now value 1 connects to value 3.
And value 2 is now at
the front of the list,
this is our most recently used,
this is our least recently used,
item within the cache.
So that is the basic idea of an LRU,
now the execution of LRU gets
a little bit tricky so obviously,
what's a data structure we're
going to need to use for an LRU.
>> The doubly linked.
>> Doubly linked list is a great answer,
right, because I mean [LAUGH] if you look
right there, obviously it's a doubly
linked list, we're gonna definitely
want to use that but there's a second
more important problem that's happening.
How did I ask for value 2?
Well, what do you think back to our Falkor
days, this is where I implemented it for
we've talked about this multiple times,
we would hand in some sort
of path that looks like video 1,
2, 3, I don't know, title.
So I need some sort of way to
be able to look this up quickly.
Now in the Falkor case,
it was a trial, right,
it was a trial that we discussed earlier.
But in this case, it doesn't actually
have to be a trial, does it?
No, it can just be any key, right?
I need some sort of key,
so you can imagine, hey,
I want to request this piece
of data from the back end.
Do I have this piece of data in my cache?
So some sort of way in which you can key,
the value so you can go right to it.
So what does that sounds like?
>> HashMap.
>> HashMap, my goodness.
It's like we were just discussing this,
so we also have the potential for
a HashMap here, but how can we use these
two things at the exact same time?
That is really the hard question, right?
Well, hold your horses right there.
So the idea is this is that you have
a HashMap that has two generics, right?
There's always two generics associated
with a HashMap a key and a value.
But the problem is, of course,
that our key and our value,
well, what is our value?
Well, our value needs to be
a node within the link list so
we can instantaneously jump to
that point within the list.
So if you think about it, this could
solves the traversing effect of a linked
list, you don't have to go through it
sequentially you jump right to the value
that exists, if it doesn't you don't
jump right to it so we used a tree.
Inside a trial tree, a pixel tree,
a dizzal tree whatever they call it,
we use that to jump straight to the value.
Here we're gonna use a key of some
sort to jump straight to the value,
and the value is actually gonna
be a container class of node,
which means we're literally
going to have a HashMap that has
items inside of it that also
have pointers to other items.
Right, and so
makes it pretty kind of confusing.
You can see why this is probably not
the coolest question asked somebody
when I get to an interview, I don't
feel like this is the greatest question,
I've literally asked this question too.
So I have to feel somewhat bad.
But that's the effective idea of an LRU.
And I figured we could try
to implement one of these,
I've only implemented it
once in the last month, so
hopefully it doesn't just completely
break down live right here.
But let's talk about running
time before we do that.
What is a HashMap lookup?
>> Constant.
>> Constant, 0, 1, let's go.
What is the breaking
from a linked list and
what's the insertion in
the front of a linked list?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Depends on the traversal, right?
So if the traversal to
the node is constant,
it does not matter how many
nodes are within the link list,
you have to break two connections
on each side to pull it out,
you have to put two connections to insert
it into the front plus adjusting the head.
So a total of 7 0(1)
operations, pretty neat.
So that means we're gonna have to
have some bookkeeping to be able to
accomplish this.
What we're really doing right now is
we're now composing data structures,
we have left the realm of simply
defining a data structure.
We are now composing them using multiple
of them to create a pretty nice behavior,
and we have actually unconstrained
ourselves from a linked list.
And so it makes it kind of a unique
way to be able to accomplish this.
All right, so we can probably
just jump right into programming.
Shall we jump right into programming and
see how this thing is done?
Let's see if I can see how
this thing is done, all right-
>> Sorry, where did the 7 come from?
>> The 7 the 7 yes, well, when you
remember when you break a note out of
here, you need to take its previous and
pointed to your next one operation,
you need to take if your next and
pointed to the previous two operations.
You need to take your next and set it
to undefined three or that'd be three
operations, you need to set your previous
undefined four operations, we've now
broken it out of the linked list and
made sure that the connections are good.
Second, we have to come up here.
We have to set our next to the head.
We have to set our heads previous
to the value we're about to insert,
then we have to set our head,
three operations.
So seven operations that
all take O of one time.
Boom, so we effectively just do a prepend,
we do a delete prepend.
Yeah, yeah, now the tricky part about
this is when we actually remove
an item from the LRU, so how we remove
an item from the LRU is we do need to
still have a tail pointer, right?
We need to be able to point to the we are
able to point to the front of the list,
the front is for
when we update the cache, the tail is for
when we need to remove
from the cache an item.
So let's say we set our capacity to 10,
the moment we have 11 items inside of our
cache, we now need to downgrade and remove
the oldest possible item which always will
be at the tail because every time we get
something, we have to update the cache.
Make sense?
Awesome.
Now I did have a problem with the unit
test earlier, I believe I fixed it.
Hopefully it didn't leave it
on my previous computer and
then not commit the fix
unit tests just disastrous.
And so for those I assume we remember
the tail removing operation,
the pop operation,
effectively it's a 3 step operation.
We set the tail to the previous,
right, tailed off brief.
Or we don't actually, then we also
save off a value to the tail then
we unhook the saved off value to the tail
and we unhook it the other direction and
then we can return out the tail.
So that would be that type of operation.
In an LRU, we don't return out the last
item in the cache, we just get rid of it.
We no longer need it, if it isn't
in a more traditional language,
we'd have to free it or delete it.
So awesome.
So is there any other questions
with the operations of an LRU?
I know that was pretty brief.
But I made the assumption that
you remember how a map works.
You remember how a linked list works.
So we're just combining these two data
structures to make a superstructure.
I always wanna use
the term superstructure.